Create 14-12-22_writeup.md (#188)
very-good-science/data-ethics-club: site/write_ups/2022/14-12-22_writeup.md

# Data Ethics Club: [Defective Altruism](https://www.currentaffairs.org/2022/09/defective-altruism)

```{admonition} What's this? 
This is summary of Wednesday 14th December's Data Ethics Club discussion, where we spoke about [Defective Altruism](https://www.currentaffairs.org/2022/09/defective-altruism), a current affairs article written by Nathan J. Robinson. We welcomed members of [Bristol's Effective Altruism society](https://eabristol.co.uk/students/) to this discussion.   
The summary was written by Huw Day with the aid of Chat GPT (see disclaimer), synthesising everyone's contributions to this document and the discussion. "We" = "someone at Data Ethics Club". 
Nina Di Cara and Natalie Thurlby helped with the final edit.
```

## Disclaimer

As an experiment, this writeup was done a little bit differently. Huw made use of the language model [Chat GPT](https://chat.openai.com/chat) to make this writeup. You can read more about what he did in this separate [blogpost](link here!).

> This is still a summary of the discussion had at the original, as the chat GPT system was fed the questions and corresponding notes written during those discussions and instructed to collate these into a blog post summary, much in the way Huw usually does by hand. This was a one off experiment and feedback is encouarged and welcome. Everything you see below this point (not including the list of attendees at the end and the questions) is curated by chat GPT with Huw's input.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is still a summary of the discussion had at the original meeting, as the chat GPT system was fed the questions and corresponding notes written during those discussions and instructed to collate these into a blog post summary, much in the way Huw usually does by hand. This was a one off experiment and feedback is encouraged and welcome. Everything you see below this point (not including the list of attendees at the end and the questions) is curated by chat GPT with Huw's input.
```

Finally, the discussion raised the idea that the existence of charities can be seen as a failure of society, and that certain practices within academic philosophy, such as engaging in blinkered feedback loops that ignore lived experience, may enable movements like effective altruism. It was also mentioned that around 2010, there was a trend in Australia towards focusing on narrative as an indicator of success, rather than quantitative key performance indicators, and that this trend has also been observed in the business world in the UK.

---

## Attendees

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In total we had 9 attendees at this meeting. Those who provided their names are listed below.
```
